en: aggregate multiple TiDB Monitor data by thanos query (#1092)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/aggregate-multiple-cluster-monitor-data.md

---
title: Aggregate Monitoring Data of Multiple TiDB Clusters
summary: Learn how to aggregate monitoring data of multiple TiDB clusters by Thanos query.
---

# Aggregate Monitoring Data of Multiple TiDB Clusters

> This document describes how to aggregate the monitoring data of multiple TiDB clusters by Thanos to solve the centralization problem of monitoring data of multiple clusters.

Reviewer: Yes, it's good.

## Thanos

[Thanos](https://thanos.io/design.md/) is a high availability solution for Prometheus to simplify the availability guarantee of Prometheus.

Thanos provides [Thanos Query](https://thanos.io/components/query.md/) component as a unified query solution across Prometheus. You can use this feature to solve the problem of aggregating monitoring data of multiple clusters.

## Configure Thanos Query

> First, you need to configure a Thanos Sidecar container for each TidbMonitor. To update TidbMonitor, configure Thanos Sidecar and deploy Thanos Query component, refer to [Example](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/tree/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/README.md).In Thanos Query, a Prometheus corresponds to a Store, which corresponds to a TidbMonitor. After deploying Thanos Query, you can provide a unified query interface for monitoring data through Thanos Query's API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, you need to configure a Thanos Sidecar container for each TidbMonitor. Update the `TidbMonitor` CR to configure Thanos Sidecar, and deploy the Thanos Query component. For details, refer to [Example](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/tree/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/README.md).

In Thanos Query, a Prometheus corresponds to a Store, which corresponds to a TidbMonitor. After deploying Thanos Query, you can provide a unified query interface for monitoring data through Thanos Query's API.
```

Reviewer 2: @DanielZhangQD Can we incorporate the [example](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/tree/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/README.md) into this doc?

Reviewer: First, deploy the TidbMonitor with Thanos Sidecar container:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/tidb-monitor.yaml"
```

Then deploy the Thanos Query component:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/thanos-query.yaml"
```

In Thanos Query, a Prometheus corresponds to a Store, which corresponds to a TidbMonitor. After deploying Thanos Query, you can provide a unified query interface for monitoring data through Thanos Query's API.

@ran-huang @Joyinqin PTAL.

Reviewer 2: @Joyinqin Can you add this to the Chinese doc? Thank you.

## Configure Grafana

> After you deploy Thanos Query, Grafana only needs to change the DataSource into the Thanos source to query the monitoring data of multiple TidbMonitors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you deploy Thanos Query, change Grafana's DataSource into Thanos to query the monitoring data of multiple `TidbMonitor` CRs.
```

## Add or reduce TidbMonitor

> If you need to update or offline TidbMonitor, update the starting configuration `--store` of Thanos Query Store, and perform a rolling update to Thanos Query component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to update the `TidbMonitor` CR or take it offline, update the starting configuration `--store` of Thanos Query Store, and perform a rolling update to the Thanos Query component.
```

## Configure archives and storage of Thanos Sidecar

> Thanos Sidecar supports replicating monitoring data to S3 remote storage, and the configuration is as follows:
> 
> The configuration of the TidbMonitor CR is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanos Sidecar supports replicating monitoring data to S3 remote storage.

The configuration of the `TidbMonitor` CR is as follows:
```

Thanos provides [Thanos Query](https://thanos.io/tip/components/query.md/) component as a unified query solution across multiple Prometheus clusters. You can use this feature to aggregate monitoring data of multiple TiDB clusters.

## Configure Thanos Query

First, deploy the TidbMonitor with Thanos Sidecar container:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```
kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/tidb-monitor.yaml"
```

Then deploy the Thanos Query component:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```
kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/thanos-query.yaml"
```

In Thanos Query, a Prometheus corresponds to a Store, which corresponds to a TidbMonitor. After deploying Thanos Query, you can provide a unified query interface for monitoring data through Thanos Query's API.

## Configure Grafana

After you deploy Thanos Query, change Grafana's DataSource into Thanos to query the monitoring data of multiple `TidbMonitor` CRs.

> ## Add or reduce TidbMonitor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add or remove TidbMonitor
```

> If you need to update the `TidbMonitor` CR or take it offline, update the starting configuration `--store` of Thanos Query Store, and perform a rolling update to the Thanos Query component.

Reviewer: `If you need to update the `TidbMonitor` CR or take it offline`, the original meaning is to add, update, or remove a monitor store from the Thanos query, the configuration is similar with the following:
```
$ thanos query \
    --http-address     "0.0.0.0:9090" \
    --store            "<store-api>:<grpc-port>" \
    --store            "<store-api2>:<grpc-port>" 
```

> If you need to update the `TidbMonitor` CR or take it offline, update the starting configuration `--store` of Thanos Query Store, and perform a rolling update to the Thanos Query component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to add, update, or remove a monitor store from the Thanos query, update the configuration as follows and perform a rolling update to the Thanos Query component:

        ```shell
        thanos query \
            --http-address     "0.0.0.0:9090" \
            --store            "<store-api>:<grpc-port>" \
            --store            "<store-api2>:<grpc-port>" 
        ```

```
@DanielZhangQD Is this what you mean?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to add, update, or remove a monitor store from the Thanos query, update the `--store` configuration of Thanos Query, and perform a rolling update to the Thanos Query component.
```
What about this?

Reviewer 2: LGTM. @Joyinqin Can you update Chinese as well?

---
title: Aggregate Monitoring Data of Multiple TiDB Clusters
summary: Learn how to aggregate monitoring data of multiple TiDB clusters by Thanos query.
---

# Aggregate Monitoring Data of Multiple TiDB Clusters

This document describes how to aggregate the monitoring data of multiple TiDB clusters by Thanos to provide centralized monitoring service.

## Thanos

[Thanos](https://thanos.io/design.md/) is a high availability solution for Prometheus that simplifies the availability guarantee of Prometheus.

Thanos provides [Thanos Query](https://thanos.io/tip/components/query.md/) component as a unified query solution across multiple Prometheus clusters. You can use this feature to aggregate monitoring data of multiple TiDB clusters.

## Configure Thanos Query

First, deploy the TidbMonitor with Thanos Sidecar container:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```

> kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/tidb-monitor.yaml"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/tidb-monitor.yaml
```

```

Then deploy the Thanos Query component:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```

> kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/thanos-query.yaml"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl -n ${namespace} apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/monitor-with-thanos/thanos-query.yaml
```

```

In Thanos Query, a Prometheus corresponds to a Store, which corresponds to a TidbMonitor. After deploying Thanos Query, you can provide a unified query interface for monitoring data through Thanos Query's API.

## Configure Grafana

After you deploy Thanos Query, change Grafana's DataSource into Thanos to query the monitoring data of multiple `TidbMonitor` CRs.

## Add or remove TidbMonitor

If you need to add, update, or remove a monitor store from the Thanos Query, update the `--store` configuration of Thanos Query, and perform a rolling update to the Thanos Query component.

```shell

>         thanos query \
>             --http-address     "0.0.0.0:9090" \
>             --store            "<store-api>:<grpc-port>" \
>             --store            "<store-api2>:<grpc-port>" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- query
- --http-address=0.0.0.0:9090
- --store=<store-api>:<grpc-port>
- --store=<store-api2>:<grpc-port>
```
